Artificial Intelligence Foundations 
 --> Acquire AI fundamental skills and begin your AI journey

			45 Hours of theory and hands-on activities

Excercises exploring - 
	Pandas 		Python 		Numpy		SQL		Anaconda

32 Hands on labs
2  Excercises
10 Videos
9  Hours of handson
23 Knowledge checks
NASSCOM Approved Certification


Program Outline - 

Course 1 - Introduction to AI
1. Evolution and Definition of AI
2. Early AI Technology
3. AI Pioneers
4. AI Timeline and Famous Applications
5. Current AI Techand Trend-setters
6. Difference Between Narrow, General and Super AI
7. Opportunities in AI Across Industries
8. Principles of Machine Learning

Course 2 - Database Concepts
1.Introduction to Database Concepts
2. Introduction to Relational Databases
3. SQL Relational Database Models
4. Types of SQL Relationships
5. Data Types and Data Formats
6. NoSQL Databases
7. Using Python for Data Acquisition and Analysis


Course 3 - AI Programming Fundamentals: Python
1. Introduction to AI Programming with Python
2. Data Types in Python
3. Fundamental Data Structures
4. Basic Python Programming for AI- String, Data Structures, Operations, Loops, Branch, Numpy and Pandas
5. Understand and Define Sorting and Searching Algorithms
6. Geometric and Graphing Algorithms

Course 4 - AI Statistics-Python
1. Basic Statistic Concepts
2. AI Statistics-Python Introduction
3. Getting Started with Cognos
4. Descriptive Statistics
5. Correlation of data
6. Basic Statistical Analysis Tools
7. Visualizing data with Plotly

Course 5 - Data Visualization with Python 
1. Fundamentals of Data Visualizations 
2. Identify Popular Visualization Dashboards
3. Define Specialized Visualization Tools
4. Creating Maps and Visualizing Geospatial Data
5. Introduction to Building Charts-Pie Charts, Line charts, Bar charts, Column charts, Ring charts, Map charts.

Learning Outcomes - 
1. Learn different forms of graphs.
2. Experience Python as an AI tool.
3. Understand how AI impacts business.
4. Create data visualizations with Python.
5. Learn AI trends and career opportunities.
6. Learn the fundamentals of SQL and data structures.
7. Understand the impact statistics has on AI research.