Effective Communication in the Workplace 
----------------------------------------------

‘You can have brilliant ideas, but if you can't get them across, your ideas won't get you anywhere.’ --> Lee Iacocca

‘Persuasive communication involves enthusiasm, animation, audience participation, authenticity and spontaneity.’ --> John C. Maxwell

‘The single biggest problem in communication is the illusion that it has taken place.’ --> George Bernard Shaw

The capacity for recognising our own feelings and those of others, for motivating ourselves and for managing emotions well in ourselves and in our relationships. --> Daniel Goleman

"One of the most sincere forms of respect is actually listening to what another has to say’. --> Bryant H. McGill

‘Empathy is walking a mile in somebody else’s moccasins. Sympathy is being sorry their feet hurt’ --> Rebecca O’Donnell

‘It usually takes me more than three weeks to prepare a good impromptu speech’. --> Mark Twain

Before you start --> 
It is recommended that you dedicate some time during this course to reflect on your own workplace experiences and create a portfolio of your work, that demonstrates the relevant capability in a folder on your desktop as you make your way through the course.

This process will help you build a powerful portfolio of your experiences and achievements, adding value to your professional profile and making it easier for you to showcase your capability with your network or employer.


Module 1: Professional Communication - 

- Guide to professional Writing styles
- Characteristics of business writing
- Business reports
- Effective Search Methods


Guide to professional writing styles - 
Variety of writing styles and when they can be used to be most effective. 
- Expository 
Explaining something in text. Examples can be found in recipe books and technical manuals. Best used if you want to create ‘how-to’ communication with facts and figures but no emotive summations or personal reflections. This writing style is quite commonly used in the workplace.

- Descriptive
An element of writing that can be incorporated in all others. We quite often describe circumstances and events in both our work and personal lives. The key here is to use the right ‘type’ of adjective for the right circumstance. For example, describing the sun as ‘cheerfully bright’ might be fine for a piece of poetry, but highlighting the dangers of the ‘hot Australian’ sun in a Work Health and Safety presentation is more suitable.

- Persuasive
Convincing others to think as you think. Examples are found in newspapers, advertisements, academic essays, emails and letters, both personal and professional. In a business context, we will write persuasive communication regularly to our customers externally and stakeholders internally. We also incorporate a persuasive writing style when we deliver oral, video or in-person presentations.

- Narrative 
Telling a story. Examples are novels, poetry and can include oral histories. Writing narratives in a business setting is rare. However, it can be used to capture the details of a workplace dispute or conflict where recording the spoken and physical events is important.

Guidelines - 
Most professional organisations will have some expectations about the level of quality and consistency that they expect to see in all written communication.

The following are some examples of the types of suggestions that you might find in your workplace guidelines. 
- Abbreviations and Acronyms
Use sparingly as they can make your message hard to understand. Acronyms that are common in one country may not be understood in others. If the term is used more than once within the one piece of writing, make sure the first time it is used it is spelt out in full followed by the abbreviation in brackets. For example, World Health Organisation (WHO). .

- Addresses
Addresses should include commas only in cases where the address details would be confusing without them. For example, 255 Elizabeth St, Sydney NSW 2000. The comma only needs to be after the letters ‘St’ because it has been abbreviated. 

- Between 
When identifying information that sits between two objects, it should be identified using ‘and’. For example, ‘between 15 and 20’ is correct but ‘between 15 to 20’ is not correct. Look at the image below to see the example. 	
		An example of using 'and' to identify information that sits between two objects.

- Capitalisation
Capitals are difficult to read in large quantities and they can make the reader feel like you are shouting. So the rule of thumb is to keep capitals to a minimum; they should only be used at the start of a sentence, for proper nouns and well-known acronyms or abbreviations, such as when you write ‘The UK’.

- Bold of Coloured type
Bold font or coloured type is generally only used in headings and subheadings. Don’t use bold to emphasise words unless absolutely necessary. Over-use prevents key points from standing out, defeating the purpose of using bold.

- Bullet points
Bullet points make it easy to scan important information and separate complex points.

Writing quality and accuracy - It maintains
- Grammarly 
- Ginger
- Hemingway

Characterisitcs of business writing - 
Things to consider --> 
The major factors to consider in any written communication are ::> 
1. Who will be reading it? People who might read it are always referred to as the 'audience'
2. What is about? The communication needs to begin after we know the 'subject', or sometimes people call this the 'topic'.

Tone - The tone of your voice tells the audience about your personality because it forms the expression in your message.

Fomality - How formal should the language be? Should your communication include a courteous greeting?Or, if it is informal, can you simply start with 'Hi'?

Format - Plain English rather than jargon and acronyms. Plus the use of appropriate grammar and sentence structure. Don’t forget to use correct spelling and adhere to style guides. 

Purpose - The subject, topic or point you are trying to make will help determine the amount of information that needs to be provided. It will also help you keep the information under control so that you don’t write too much or about a range of topics that are too broad.

Writings - 
Emails 
Letter writings

Emails - 
Subject Line - It is a crucial part of your email as it can influence whether the reader opens your message. 
Opener - Include a quick greeting to acknowledge the reader before getting into the purpose and details of your message.
Subsequent Paragraph - Identifies the main point of why the email is being written and can include some background info
Body - This is where the bulk of you message lies.
Closing - Keep it as concise as possible to minimise the risk of the reader skimming through your message and missing important information.

Email Writing tips - 
1. Checking for accuracy 
2. Taking the time to do a spelling and grammar check
3. Re-reading before you press send
4. Appropriate use of capitalisation 
5. Responding in a timely manner
6. Deletinng inappropriate emails that you might receive
7. Not forwarding jokes
8. Using CC or BCC where appropriate
9. Making sure that auto-replies are in place when you are planning to be absent from work.

Resources- 
1. The Email Etiquette Rules Every Professional Should Know - https://www.businessinsider.com.au/email-etiquette-rules-everyone-should-know-2014-9#3-think-twice-before-hitting-reply-all-3

Letter Writing - 
There are a lot of reasons that you might have to write business letters or other forms of correspondence. For example, to write a cover letter in an application for a job, to recommend someone for a job, to inform an individual or a group of a change in the working conditions, to request something from an individual or a group in a formal way or to congratulate an organisation that you have been closely working with.

Formal Letters - 
Font - 12pt Times New Roman font for entire letter
Paragraph Spacing - Number of lines between each paragraph
Subject Line - Bold 
Body of the message - open punctuation - only punctuate the paragraphs
Text alignment - Full block style - all lines begin at the left margin

Tips
1. Left-aligned
2. Body of letter centred
3. Equal space allowed for date and address as for signature
4. Date at top 
5. Address block 
6. Subject line
7. First paragraph will use courteous statement to introduce topic
8. Paragraphs flow logically from one to next


Business reports - 
Reports are a common means of transmitting information about progress and outcomes. It should be easy to read and professional in their presentation 
It might be team reports, monthly performance reports, financial reports, data quality reports, executive reports and board reports

Key Features of a report - 
Audience - Who the report is for
Purpose - Why you are writing the report 
Structure - Executive summary, table of contents, introduction, discussion
Style - Short concise wording

Types of reports include - 
1. Monthly performance reports
2. Special research tasks to address a problem 
3. Project progress
4. Market research 
5. Customer satisfaction ratings

Tools and strategies 
1. Holding interviews
2. Sendnig out questionnaires
3. Accessing past records
4. Using a library 
5. Using the Internet

Using data to tell a story - 
1. Financial and statistical data
2. Jounals, articles, research papers
3. Human sources of information
4. Types of data -
Quantitative - It refers to something that can be counted or measured and it usually represented as a figure.
Qualitative - It refers to things that cannot be measured, like feelings, colours or things that provide quality or value.


Effective Search Methods - 
Google search skills 
Having access to the Internet has completely changed the way we access information and undertake research.

Being more targeted in your search approach can help you find more meaningful information quicker. A great way to evaluate internet sources is to run through the CRAAP test 

Currency - 
1. When was the information published or posted?
2. Has the information been revised or updated?
3. Is the information current or out of date for your needs?
4. Are the links still working?

Relevance - 
1. Does the information relate to your topic?
2. Who is the intended audience?
3. Is the information at an appropriate level?

Authority - 
1. Who is the author/publisher/source/sponser?
2. Are the author's credentials visible?
3. Is there contact information, such as a publisher or email address?
4. Is it from a reputable or established institution/outlet?

Accurate - 
1. Where does the information come from?
2. Is the information supported by evidence or does it sound like someone might have made it up?
3. Can you verify any of the information in another source?

Purpose - 
1. What is the purpose of the information, why was it written?
2. Is the information fact? or is it opinion?

Creating Surveys - 
1. SurveyMonkey 
2. GoogleForms
3. Surveygizmo

7 tips for good survey questions - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iq_fhTuY1hw#action=share


Professional Communication - Case study 
New smartphone product testing - https://youtu.be/p8A4yqN4_9A 	Activity



Module 2 ::> Persuasive Communication 
- Communicating through body language
- Making effective presentations
- Slide software for presentations
- Using images to communicate 
- Enhancement using audio visuals


Communicating through body language - 
Body language is a ‘non-verbal’ communication technique. It’s not about voice, tone or pitch.
It’s how people communicate face-to-face or one person communicates to an audience of one or more people. When used correctly, it’s a powerful communication tool.
It accounts for over 90% of the meaning that people take from any human communication. That’s a lot!

Differences in body language --> https://player.vimeo.com/video/386370225

Facial Expression - When you want to persuade someone you are communicating with, you should look happy and not angry 
Posture - Try keeping your posture 'open', meaning upright and turned toward your audience to show friendliness
Body Position - The space between you and the audience or recipient
Eyes - While looking directly at your audience is the right thing to dd
Hand gestures - A clenched fist is not very positive
Arms and legs - It includes in the openness of your posture.

Resources - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_v36Vt9GmH8

Making effective presentations - 
Presentations are often used in the workplace to announce new ideas or provide a verbal summary of a project.
The success of your presentation is not only determined by the transfer of information, it's also your ability to influence, inspire and make what you say memorable.

Key to success - 
1. Preparation for the presentation
2. Structure of the presentation
3. Dynamic delivery 
4. Language used

Presenting and public speaking - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q5WT2vweFRY
Tips - 
1. Preparation 
2. Structure
3. Delivery


Slide software for presentations - 
Powerpoint
Google Slides
Pecha Kucha

Quick tutorial for new google slides presentation 2019 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYA6GLAzz9A

Using templates - 
1. Title slide
2. Branding elements or logo
3. Headings, subheadings, and bullet point styles
4. Footer details, such as slide number
5. A place for images

Free PPT Templates and google slides themes - https://www.slidescarnival.com/


Using images to communicate - 

Sourcing images and content - 
Bigstockphoto - https://www.bigstockphoto.com/
Shutterstock - https://www.shutterstock.com/
Flickr - https://www.flickr.com/

Copyright and Attribution
When working with any content that someone else has produced, there is more to consider than just how to 'cut and paste'. We all like being recognised for the work we do, and next, we will look at some important things to consider when using someone else's content.

Copyright
1. As the name suggests, it is the permission (protected by law) to present or reproduce content. It protects the creator/author of the content so that they can determine how their work is used and whether or not they require payment. If you use an image without permission, you may be in breach of copyright, which means you are breaking the law.

2. How do you know if you are in breach? You must assume that all images are subject to copyright. However, there are some ways you can use images that you haven't created and we have outlined these below.

Attribution

1. Regardless of where you source the images, there will be rules about 'attribution' or how you acknowledge and reference the person whose work (pictures and images) you have used.

2. There are websites that allow you to use information and images for free if attribution is given.
It is very important that you know that even when you ‘purchase’ content, whether it's used for commercial and non-commercial attribution might still be a condition of purchase.

Creative Commons (CC)

The Creativecommons.org site allows you to search for images and information on a number of subjects. It allows for the sharing of content, but the creator still has a say in the way it's used.

The conditions of use are described in the individual license. In other words, they will tell you exactly how you can use the image and what they want the attribution to look like.

Creative Commons Licence (CC) - The CC licences provide a simple standardised way for individual creators, companies and institutions to share their work with others on flexible terms without infringing copyright. The licences allow users to reuse, remix and share the content legally.
Offering your work under a Creative Commons licence does not mean giving up your copyright. It means permitting users to make use of your material in various ways, but only on certain conditions.

Attribution (BY) - This applies to every Creative Commons work. Whenever a work is copied or redistributed under a Creative Commons licence, the original creator (and any other nominated parties) must be credited and the source linked to.
If you are ever uncertain, you can check the web site and remember to copy the link to your work to credit the source.

Share Alike (SA) - Share Alike is for work that has not been modified but copied directly from the source and placed in your presentation. You cannot change the original image but if you build on the original image you still have to attribute it.
There are billions of images on CC for anyone to use.

Free resources - 
There are many Free websites that may provide basic resources for your slide presentation.  Always be sure to check for the attribution rules as set out in the license!

Google Search
When using images from Google, you must still be careful about copyright and attribution. Follow these instructions to ensure you do not breach a person or company’s rights under copyright law:
- Select ‘Settings’
- Select ‘Advanced Search’
- Scroll down the page to ‘Usage Rights’ and select ‘Free to use, share or modify even commercially’


Enhancement using audio visuals - 
A great way to enhance your presentation will be when you use audiovisuals. They can be static or moving, but always have an audible sound to help emphasise the image and message.

Many logos include audio, for example ::>
- NETFLIX - It appears on your screen with a big thud noise
- WINDOWS - When your computer turns on, there is a distinctive tune

 Video
Video is an interesting way to communicate and provides the creative challenge of using moving images and sound to communicate a topic or idea.
The approach to be taken for audiovisual (audio/sound and video) presentations is very similar to face-to-face presentations.

Consider the following - 
- What is the topic?
- What do you want to say?
- What is the timeframe for the presentation?
- Are you going to record an audio presentation, whilst on screen as a slide show?
- Will it be a recording of you talking straight to the camera? This will require careful planning and script to be written.

Once complete, you'll need to - 
- Reading your script
- As you read, check the visuals are aligning with what you're saying and the overall timing of the presentation is appropriate.
- Getting the sound levels right. Test and playback the audio checking the voice, volume and tone.

Screencasts - 
A screencast is a digital recording of computer screen output, also known as a video screen capture, often containing audio narration.
Screencasts will capture all of the action on a computer screen whilst you are narrating. They can help build your digital literacy, communication and problem-solving skills.

How to create a Screencast - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jHUJgHyixB8

Persuasive Communication - Case Study 
Every Presentation Ever --> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rIABo0d9MVE

Presentation - 
Slide title - Make this short and interesting. 
Body text - Start with a short four-word explaination such as 'roles and responsibilites'
Image - Make sure to used an in-focus image and crop it
Logo - Your company logo will sit somewhere on this template
Footer - This can be the title of the entire slide pack, such as 'My new career'
Slide number - Make sure you number each of your slides.

Procedure - 
1. Make the title - your job title
2. Now provide some information on what you do and what team you're in 
3. Include an image to help explain to your audience what it is
4. Finally, hand your presentation to your supervisor and ask for feedback


Module 3 --> Interpersonal Communication
1. Effective workplace relationships
2. The art of listening
3. Giving and receiving feedback
4. Business meetings

Effective workplace relationships - 
Maintaining effective workplace relationships requires you to accept and celebrate differences in your colleagues. It requires skills:
1. Communication skills - Written, verbal and non-verbal
2. Active listening skills - Full attention given to the speaker and messages can be played back showing understanding
3. Time management skills - Being organised and respectful of shared responsibilities
4. Ability to give and receive feedback in a positive manner

Consultation in the workplace - Consultation is the process by which the decision-maker seeks the views of stakeholders before reaching the decision. 
Three things to consider before the consultation is to begin::>
1. What is the purpose of the consultation? What was the issue that needs to be addressed?
2. Who are the stakeholders? Internal or external?
3. What process will be used? Will you have a meeting? Send out a poll?

Why emotional intelligence matters
All of the skills we have discussed so far are modified by how much emotional intelligence we have. While tests on how smart a person is are called intelligence quotient (or IQ), emotional intelligence is shortened to EQ.

Benifits of EQ in the workplace 
1. Increased team performance 
2. Improved decision making
3. Decreased occupational stress
4. Reduced staff turnover
5. Increased personal well-being
6. Increased leadership ability

High IQ versus high EQ
IQ is a score based on a standardised test that could be used to benchmark your intelligence or knowledge

High EQ ::> I feel ...
1. Open expression of emotions
2. Not preoccupied with negative emotions
3. Can identify the feelings of others
4. Emotionally resilient
5. Decisions based on feelings and logic
6. Accepts self and others
7. Good listener
8. Talks about problems

Low EQ ::> You always make me feel ...
1. Cannot share feelings verbally
2. Negative feelings dominate
3. Not perceptive to the feelings of others
4. Carries grudges, unforgiving
5. Acts without reasoning or logic
6. Not accepting of self and others
7. Poor listener
8. 'Hits out' when there is a problem

The art of listening - 
Interpersonal Communication - It is a two-way street. Listening to a colleague speak is an opportunity to not only gain information, but it's also a way of building rapport. Showing signs that we are listening can create better connections because the speaker feels valued.

Requirements - 
1. Actively Listening
We can show that we are actively listening by:
1. Giving our full attention
2. Maintaining eye-contact (for face-to-face interactions), but understanding where eye-contact may be culturally inappropriate
3. Using non-verbal communication, e.g. body language
4. Personal presentation (for face-to-face interactions)

Responding - 
In our response to the speaker we:
- Repeat back, summarising what we've heard
- Handle sensitive and confidential issues respectfully
- Use appropriate language and tone of voice
- Use clearly written information/communication
- Use open and/or closed questions

Reflecting - 
People with good reflective listening skills:
- Read between the lines and reflect what is really being communicated
- Acknowledge with simple phrases that don’t interrupt the flow
- Are sensitive to and acknowledge feelings
- Really listen and don’t think up a response while people are talking
- Above all else, they don’t interrupt!

Clarifying - 
To clarify is to:
- Paraphrase what is being said
- Use questions to sum up
- Empathise with the other person
- Encourage the speaker to continue (nod, murmur brief words of encouragement)
- Really take in what is being said, not make judgments as they speak

Importance of reflection
In order to establish a deeper understanding of what's being communicated, we need to take the time to reflect and clarify. Reflection is a way of considering meaning at many levels without jumping to early conclusions. 

Empathy versus sympathy - 

- You are able to 'put yourself in someone else's shoes.'
- Being able to express empathy isn't always easy.
- Responding with, 'I know how you feel', when clearly you may not, might be viewed as condescending.
- You could try labelling the emotion that you think they are feeling, e.g. I can see you are very frustrated/angry/agitated/upset.
- When you make these statements, you are more likely to gain trust and the speaker is more likely to elaborate. This, in turn, may help to defuse the situation and calm the speaker down.

Empathy - 
In the workplace, I am able to share the feeling with the person who has experienced a bad episode. I do this to try to respond the right way. I don’t want to overreact or underreact. 

Sympathy -
If I don’t know the person well or understand what happened to make them feel bad, I express sympathy towards them and I understand that this will mean that the person experiencing the grief is experiencing it alone.

Resource - https://player.vimeo.com/video/386370887


Active listening - It does not mean all you do is listen. There will be times when it's appropriate to comment or ask further questions. If timed well, they won't be interruptions but they will provide opportunities to clarify and make sure you are understanding and receiving the message that's being intended.



Giving and receiving feedback 

Feedback loop --> image in dbms folder

The process of giving and receiving feedback is called the feedback loop. 

Giving feedback - 
Giving feedback may occur while working in team projects, when you are new to the workplace or even during performance reviews.
Select each heading below to reveal what you should do prior to delivering feedback.

Things you need to consider 
1. Ensure the feedback is timely – there is no point raising something that happened many months ago because details can fade over time.
2. Be calm and patient – don’t be rushed or bring anger or anxiety with you.
3. Demonstrate integrity by sticking to the discussion at hand – only bring up other people or incidents/events if they are relevant. Never betray another person’s confidence.
4. Stick to the facts as they were collected and reported. Remember there might be an alternative viewpoint and so be open to the possibility that the facts you have are not exactly accurate.

Things to avoid - 
1. Bringing up past behaviour in a conversation in the present
2. Using authority as a means of control
3. Criticising in front of other team members
4. Being overly emotional
5. Attacking the person, rather than the behaviour

Importance of trust for effective feedback
Trust is a two-way process and is built over time. However, it can only exist if people are able to provide and accept feedback. If there is no trust between the two parties, it will be almost impossible for the feedback session to be effective. 
The hardest lesson you don’t want to learn is that trust is fragile and it can be broken quicker than it was formed in the first place.

Performance reviews
Formal performance reviews and forward planning are part of the ongoing workplace communication that helps employees perform well. This is an excellent way to highlight the link between the organisation’s strategic goals, operational objectives and individual goals.
Performance management aligns individual employee’s goals and measures of success with the organisation’s strategic and business plans.

During a performance review, it’s an opportunity to:
- Look back, reflect and discuss previous performance
- Plan for improvements and development opportunities
- Look to the future

image in dbms folder

SBI Model - Situation, Behaviour, and Impact 
It is used to quicly establish facts in order to address an item during a performance review.
Situation - Explain the circumstances of the event
Behaviour - Explain the behaviours as they were witnessed or reported by others
Impact - Explain what happened as a result of the behaviour

It’s clear and direct and can help cut through to the heart of the issue in a short amount of time.
For example:
S – ‘You announced changes to seating arrangements in the office.’
B – ‘You stated that everyone needed to have desks packed up ready for moving by close of business today.’
I – ‘I felt like there was no consideration shown for myself or my team. I wasn’t aware that these changes were coming and I didn’t have an opportunity to brief the team or schedule this activity as part of our workflow.’

Business Meetings - 
Meetings are a primary process in any organisation. In fact, for many people, attending meetings is what they do during most of their time in the workplace.

To get the most out of a meeting, the following is required:
1. An agenda - What exactly is going to be discussed?
2. Room preparation
3. Minute taking
4. Encouragement of group discussion to get all points of view
5. Efficient time management


Different types of meetings 
1. Stand-up meetings – are generally no more than 10 minutes to plan the day, make announcements, set expectations, assure understanding and alignment, identify upcoming difficulties, etc.
Attendees: members of a team who have a lot of different projects running.

2. Staff meetings – are generally focussed on clearing calendars, coordinating unit activities, sharing info, etc.
Attendees: teams in large numbers have staff meetings and mostly monthly.

3. Board meetings – are used to report results, set policies and directions, scan for needed changes, etc.
Attendees: only the executive members of the business.

4. Management team meetings – are an opportunity to solve problems, make decisions, set policy, etc.
Attendees: the managers of teams of people or managers responsible for a department or specialisation.

5. Team meetings – can help resolve conflicts, share impressions and feelings, gain alignment and commitment to goals, strengthen relationships, clear out debris from disputes, develop or deepen interpersonal trust, etc.
Attendees: any team of two or more people who have the same leader or manager will have team meetings and these can be informal.

6. Project Team meetings – define results, methods, schedules, responsibilities, policies, etc.
Attendees: people from different departments who are working on the same project, but don’t necessarily work in the same building or on the same site, will meet to discuss progress.

Organising meetings - 
Before the meeting can take place, there is some work that needs to be done in preparation to ensure that everything runs smoothly.

The following is a short checklist that can help ensure success.
1. Clarify the task of the meeting
2. Define the desired outcomes
3. Design the sequence of meeting activities
4. Determine who should attend, roles and ground rules
5. Decide when to meet, when to end
6. Determine logistics, equipment and administrative matters and notify participants
7. Complete the agenda
8. Communicate the agenda to participants
9. Set up the meeting room

Meeting agenda - https://www.acnc.gov.au/tools/templates/meeting-agenda


Meeting minutes -
1. You’ve set the agenda, invitees have arrived, now what?
2. Throughout the meeting, most attendees will take notes.
3. However, so that the items discussed are captured in a meaningful way and can be stored for future reference, it’s critical that formal ‘minutes’ are also taken.
4. Minutes describe the ‘who’, ‘where’ and ‘what’ of the meeting and should also include the actions that need to take place after.

How to write meeting minutes - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X8BkGpi_skQ

Online meetings - When you need to have meetings with people who cannot be in the same geographical location, you can use an online platform.
1. Zoom
2. Skype
3. Google Hangouts

Interpersonal communication - Case study  --> https://player.vimeo.com/video/376983640

References - 
1. Email etiquette rules - https://www.businessinsider.com.au/email-etiquette-rules-everyone-should-know-2014-9#3-think-twice-before-hitting-reply-all-3
2. Online manners - https://www.edutopia.org/whats-next-2008-netiquette-guidelines
3. Email in real life - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HTgYHHKs0Zw
4. Writing for business - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QrCzGp9DdzU#action=share
5. Report writing for business students - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=babmuQBIxS0#action=share
6. Smartphone product testing - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p8A4yqN4_9A#action=share
7. Statistical Language - https://www.abs.gov.au/websitedbs/a3121120.nsf/home/statistical+language+-+quantitative+and+qualitative+data
8. How to search on google - https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en
9. Search for images on google - https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/112511?hl=en&ref_topic=3180360
10. Refine web searches - https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/2466433
11. 5 questions to ask for survey success - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3mrt15qOZ0Q#action=share



Questions - 
1. Which style of writing is best used if you want to create 'how-to' communication with facts and figures but no summations or personal reflections? (B)
- Persuasive
- Expository
- Descriptive
- Narrative 

2. Which of the following make it easy to scan importatn information and seperate complex points? (C)
- Capitalisation
- Bold or coloured type
- Bullet points
- Abbrevations and acronyms

3. Which of the following is an example of expository writing? (B)
- Emails 
- Technical Manuals
- Newspapers
- Poetry

4. How much of meaning we take from communication is from verbal communication? (B)
- 80%
- 10%
- 90%
- 20%

5. The space between you and the audience or recipient is a form of body language - (T/F) --> True

6. A good contigency when planing a presentation is (B)
- Using clear body language
- Having a printed copy of notes
- Including humour
- Having an agenda

7. Emotional intelligence is also known as EI - (T/F) --> False

8. Paraphrasing what is being said is a form of (A)
- Clarifying
- Respondnig
- Reflecting
- Actively listening

9. Sympathy is about sharing similar feelings with someone else (T/F) --> True

10. People from different departments who are working on the same thing, but dont necessarily work in the same building or on the same site meet for: (D)
- Stand-up meetings
- Staff meetings
- Management meetings
- Project meetings

Conclusion ----> 

Module 1 ::> Professional communication involves writing accuracy along with the ability to organise researched information into a business document that others can understand. 


Module 2 ::> Persuasive communication is achieved when the person delivering the message is well prepared and uses a range of interesting mediums to convey their message. 


Module 3 ::> Interpersonal communication involves the active participation in building workplace relationships. It includes listening, using emotional intelligence and building trut to have productive feedback sessions.

Final reflections
To conclude your learning journey, here are some additional reflective questions that will help you further reflect on your own work experiences and optimise your learning experience from this course.

1. What are some ways you might improve your communication skills in the future?
2. How might you adapt your communication styles to communicate with different audiences within the business? 
3. How might you conduct surveys or interviews to collect data and information to help your team improve their performance?
4. What might you add to your presentations to make them more engaging?
5. How do you define emotional intelligence? How is it relevant to your work?

Deaking University --> https://credentials.deakin.edu.au/communication/?utm_source=short%20course&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=Credential_promo